# javascript-smiles-game


Skills

<ul>
<li>HTML</li>
<li>CSS</li>
<li>SASS</li>
<li>BEM</li>
<li>Figma</li>
<li>Git & GitHub</li>
</ul>

JavaScript

<ul>
<li>OOP Approach</li>
<li>Pure Functions</li>
<li>Array of Objects</li>
<li>Dynamic Html created by JavaScript</li>
<li>forEach()</li>
<li>for loops</li>
<li>Event Listeners</li>
<li>Pushing to array</li>
<li>Math.random()</li>

</ul>

Game Logic & Explanatation

The Nology Hostile Aliens Challenge 

Initial Figma design - https://www.figma.com/file/iTUn0qbZgERgdgibFz4Ias/Untitled?node-id=0%3A1

Tasked with creating a Hostile Aliens Challenge using an OOP Approach.

This was my first approach at OOP.  

I decided to use the logic of the game and change it into "Turn that frown upside down".
So when you hit the sad faces (aka ships) you turned them into smiling faces. 

The game is won when the mothership has changed or all other ships have been destroyed including the mothership.

I started initially by creating an array and targeting items in the array with a click. 
I then built on this by deducting health points from the items in the array with each click and displaying a winning pop up message when appropriate.

As an OOP Approach was required, I then cleared the array I had made and built a class with methods to create the faces/ships themselves.

The class outlined the keys and values for each object. The methods inside the class created the ships, using the keys and values defined in the class. It then pushed them to an array. A final method, creates the HTML for these ships, as the array is generated this method loops through the ship types and appends the html to the relevant ship.

The function I created earlier then selects a random ship/item from the array on every click.

With each click, hit points are deducted from the total health points. This info is stored in the array of objects generated by the class. When the conditions are met on each ship/face the html is changed to a happy face and the hitpoints are no longer displayed, when the winning conditions are met a winning pop up is then displayed.

A restart button also reloads and restarts the game. 

